In this lecture we will learn about the concept of cascading order and how it applies to CSX what happens
when some combination of inline internal and external styles reference the same element and they conflict.
For example what has been external style tells our text to be the color red and an internal style tells
our text to be the color green CSSA has a cascading order that specifies which type of styling takes
precedence if there is a conflict the highest priority is if the element has an inline style.
If an inline style is provided then the element will use that style.
The next highest precedence goes to if the element has an internal style.
If no inline style is provided but an internal style is provided the element will use that style.
After that the external style takes precedence if there is one.
If there is no inline style and no internal style provided but there is an external style that style
will be applied to the element.
Finally if there are no inline styles no internal styles and no external styles then the browser default
style values are used.
Each browser has a sheet of built in default values that vary slightly from browser to browser essentially.
Here is a summary of the order of precedence.
The lower the number the higher the priority inline styles internal styles external styles and browser
default.
Let's take a look at an example of cascading order.
Here we have given our text element an inline style to be the color red but an internal style to be
the color green.
Let's run our code in the web browser as you can see the text displays red.
This is because inline styles take precedence over internal styles in the next lecture.
We will learn about the CSSA box model.